Docs: add audit logs to contributor docs (#17522)
strapi/strapi: docs/docs/docs/01-core/admin/01-ee/02-audit-logs.md

---
title: Audit Logs
slug: /settings/audit-logs
description: Guide for Audit Logs
tags:
  - settings
  - audit-logs
---

# Audit Logs

## Summary

> Audit Logs provide a way to view the history of all user actions in a Strapi application. This includes actions related to entries (including publish actions), media (including its folders), users, login & logout of admin users, components, roles, and permissions.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to also define which actions trigger a log point somewhere? E.g. I think they are not added automatically for all events, but there is a fixed list of events that is tracked?

Another thought: only admin API actions trigger this, right? Not content API?

Reviewer: Or maybe link to the file on GH? :)

## Backend design

The Audit Logs feature was built to take advantage of the eventHub. You can find the service and its core code at `packages/core/admin/ee/server/services`.

### Subscribing to all events

The Audit Logs feature adds a subscriber to the [EventHub](/strapi/event-hub), allowing it to listen to all events in the application. However, we don't save every event in the audit logs; we only save the default ones (see the defaultEvents array in the service file).

### Retention days

As the number of events in our Audit Logs can grow significantly, we run a daily job at midnight to delete logs that are older than the retention days defined.

> By default, the retention days are set to 90 days, but this value can be changed. For enterprise self-hosted projects, users can set a configuration variable (admin.auditLogs.retentionDays) and use that one.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to specify in which file this is set and in which format? I assume integer?

For cloud projects, the retention days are determined by the license. In a cloud project, users can set a custom retention days in the configuration, but this value cannot exceed the retention days defined by the license.

### Audit Logs format

Every Audit Log has the following format:

```js

> const event = {
>   action, // Name of the event
>   date, // When the event happens
>   userId, // Id of the user that trigger the event
>   payload, // Extra info of the event
> };

Reviewer: Maybe this is better written as a TS definition?

```suggestion
type Event {
  action: string // Name of the event
  date: Date // When the event happens
  userId: number // Id of the user that trigger the event
  payload: ? // Extra info of the event
};
```

This way you can also specify which attributes are mandatory and which ones are optional :)

```

To understand how we obtain this information, we need to know how we emit an event with the Event Hub. To emit an event, we use the following function: (To see more info about the EventHub, click [here](/strapi/event-hub))

```js

> strapi.eventHub.emit('some.event', { meta: 'data' });

Reviewer: What is `meta` and how does `meta` refer to the event definition you've just added above?

Reviewer: Yeah - or maybe even `strapi.eventHub.emit(name: string, payload: Pick<Event, 'payload'>);` if you'd like to express it using TS?

---
title: Audit Logs
description: Guide for Audit Logs
tags:
  - settings
  - audit-logs
---

# Audit Logs

## Summary

> Audit Logs provide a way to view the history of all user actions at Admin API level. This includes actions related to entries (including publish actions), media (including its folders), users, login & logout of admin users, components, roles, and permissions, you can see the list of all the default events [here](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/main/packages/core/admin/ee/server/services/audit-logs.js#L9).

Reviewer 2: I think it would be a good idea to make this list dynamic, and allow other plugins or providers to update the audit log events.

Is this something that has been discussed?

Reviewer 2: woops, missed the note! no prob. It's also something any team could implement in case it is needed :)

## Backend design

> The Audit Logs feature was built to take advantage of the eventHub. You can find the service and its core code at `packages/core/admin/ee/server/services`.

Reviewer 2: How is it stored in db? Could you also mention the audit log providers?

It's a good pattern we are using and it could help understand how everything is connected together

For cloud projects, the retention days are determined by the license. In a cloud project, users can set a custom retention days in the configuration, but this value cannot exceed the retention days defined by the license.

In both cases, if we want to set a custom retention days we can modify the Admin Panel API config file (`./config/admin.js`). You can find all the possible options as well as other configurations for the Admin Panel on the [documentation page](https://docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel#available-options).

### Audit Logs format

Every Audit Log has the following format:

```typescript
type Event {
  action: string, // Name of the event
  date: Date, // When the event happens
  userId: number, // Id of the user that trigger the event
  payload?: Object, // Extra info of the event
};
```

To understand how we obtain this information, we need to know how we emit an event with the Event Hub. To emit an event, we use the following function: (To see more info about the EventHub, click [here](/docs/core/strapi/event-hub)

```typescript
strapi.eventHub.emit(name: Pick<Event, 'name'>, payload: Pick<Event, 'payload'>);
```

> When creating our Audit Log, we retrieve the action and payload from this emitted event, where the first argument is the action or event name, and the second one is the payload. We obtain the user from the requestContext.

Reviewer 2: Could we also mention that only events coming from admin requests will be stored?
